does it understand what it's doing in
the sense that we do it's easy to leap
to false conclusions as Professor
Wiseman discovered when he created Eliza
Eliza is a computer program that anyone
can converse with via the keyboard and
it'll reply on the screen we've added
human speech to make the conversation
more clear men all alike
in what way they're always bugging us
about something or other can you think
of a specific example well my boyfriend
made me come here
your boyfriend made you come here he
says son I'm depressed much the time I'm
sorry to hear that you're depressed it's
true I am unhappy do you think coming
here will help you not to be unhappy the
computers replies seem very
understanding but this program is merely
triggered by certain phrases to come up
with stock responses nevertheless
Weizenbaum secretary fell under the
spell of the machine good night Esther
to my office and sat it down at the
keyboard and she began to tighten of
course I looked over her shoulder to
make sure that everything was operating
properly after 2 or 3 interchanges with
with the Machine she turned to me and
she said would you mind leaving the room
please and yet she knew as wiesen
bounded that Eliza didn't understand a
single word that was being typed into it
you're not my father in some ways you
don't argue with me why do you think I
don't argue with you you're afraid of me
does it please you to think
my father is afraid of everybody
my father's afraid of everyone